Title: Courses
Summary: Get course descriptions, slides, demos, and assignments.

#### Psych 640: Graduate Statistics<sup>1</sup>

This two-semester course is designed to teach graduate students in
psychology a theoretical understanding of the fundamental descriptive
and inferential statistical techniques used in experimental psychology.
Additionally, students are given practical instruction about how to
perform analyses using these techniques on real datasets. This practical
instruction uses the R statistical computing environment, and students
are also taught basic programming skills in the R language.

-   [Lab slides on programming with
    R](https://wjhopper.github.io/psych640)
-   Moodle website for
    [640](https://moodle.umass.edu/course/view.php?id=22632) and for
    [641](#)

#### Psych 240: Statistics In Psychology<sup>1</sup>

An introduction to statistics designed to give undergraduates the
ability to understand basic analysis techniques used in psychological
research. We cover basic probability theory, calculating descriptive
statistics, creating and interpreting simple data visualizations,
correlation and regression, and hypothesis testing using t-tests and
chi-squared tests. We use the R statistical computing environment
thoughout the course to illustrate important concepts and analyze data.

<!--
-   [Statistics
    Demonstrations](http://people.umass.edu/whopper/demos/demos.html)
-->

#### Psych 241: Research Methods<sup>1</sup>

This course gives a comprehensive overview of research methods in
psychology. We cover independent groups, repeated measures, and
factorial experimental designs, along with observational and single case
studies.Â We also cover statical methods to analyze data collected from
experiments, including regression and multi-factor ANOVA with
interactions. Students will conduct small research projects in groups,
analyze the data and write an APA style report of the results.

<div class = "footnote"> 1. Denotes course taught as lab TA </div>
